=head1 Gtkabber - overview

=head2 Preface

Gtkabber aims to provide useful, configurable and scriptable xmpp client. Blah blah blah, isn't it? In fact, I'm writing it for myself.
I didn't like all those multi-windowed ones, unusable without a mouse.
mcabber is really nice, yet I wanted to stare at the avatars of the girls in my roster.
So I decided to have a go with Gtk. Choosed loudmouth for xmpp protocol handling, later added lua, for I wanted powerful scripting.
And... ta-dah, here we are. You may want to like it, so here's the documentation to help you to learn your way around. Enjoy!

=head2 Goals

Alright, but what for. Ain't there any nice xmpp clients? Of course they are, yet I didn't like any single one.
So why would you want to use Gtkabber? Well, I can think of a number of reasons:

=head4 B<*> You don't like dozens of windows floating around and popping up every once a while

=head4 B<*> You'd like to configure I<Everything>. Or at least most of the things.

=head4 B<*> You like scripting, You'd love to automate everything you can, use you own notification system, etc (that is where we shine :})

=head4 B<*> You're not really fond of mouse, and you like to operate on your keyboard only. No problem!

There may be more reasons, yet these are the ones which matter to I<me>.

=head2 Current status

Well, for sure it's not finished. Not everything which should be implemented is implemented. Goals are not yet fulfiled.
There's much to do, yet you can do almost all the basic stuff. Chatting is ready, Handling and requesting subscriptions works fine,
Lua scripting is in its basics, yet it's alredy fun :) (see 'scripting' document for details).

=head2 What now?

Read on :) 'building' document holds all the necessary information needed for making Gtkabber ready to use,
'configuration' will tell you how to configure it for your needs, 'scripting' explains what you can really do with this lua stuff. Enjoy!
