=head1 Gtkabber - scripting

=head2 Lua

Scripting in gtkabber is done in Lua (http://www.lua.org/). Lua is pretty clean and it's easy to use even if you don't really know it;
you will see in the Examples section.

Of course you can spend sime time learning it, it will not be wasted and will give you more opportunities.
Take look at L<Programming in Lua|http://www.lua.org/pil/index.html> to learn your way around.

=head2 Callbacks

Callback are lua functions you write to react on certain Gtkabber events. Just write a function with a proper name and you're ready.

=over 4

=item B<message_cb (from, to, msg)>

called when the message passes, there or another way. 'from' and 'to' keep the sender's and receiver's jid (with a resource), msg keeps the message body

=item B<presence_cb (jid, status, status_msg)>

called on the presence arrival. Again, 'jid' contains the full jabber id (with resource), status is the current buddy's status type (online, free for chat, away, not available, do not disturb or offline), status_msg keeps the status message (e.g. "Gone fishing")

=item B<post_connect ()>

called after a successful connection. You can set initial status in here, send some greeting messages or something

=back

=head2 Gtkabber API

Callback won't be as fun and useful if we had no gtkabber specific functions to call. All the functions are prefixed with 'gtkabber.' to avoid possible conflicts

=over 4

=item B<gtkabber.print (txt)>

print txt in a gtkabber's status tab

=item B<gtkabber.sendmsg (to, body)>

send a message to somebody

=item B<gtkabber.sendstatus (to, type, msg)>

send a status to a buddy or a server (provide nil as a 'to' parameter to set the status globally). Only the first character of the 'type' parameter is checked, so you don't really have to type much (though you can). Examples:

=over 8

=item B<* o>nline - online

=item B<* f>fc - free for chat

=item B<* a>way - away

=item B<* x>a - not availble/extended away

=item B<* d>nd - do not disturb

=item B<*> anything else - offline

=back

If msg is not provided, the message will be taken from the status message box in the gui.

=back

More coming soon :)

=head2 User-defined actions

User can define his own actions which can be easily called from gtkabber's user interface. To use this feature, create (in your config file)
an array called 'actions' containing... ah, let me show you an example:

 actions = {
		{ name = "_Test", action = function () os.execute("xcowsay 'This is a test!' &") end },
		{ name = "Go _away", action = gtkabber.sendstatus(nil, "away") }
 }

The following will result in creating two buttons in your options bar, each with a mnemonic (the character prefixed with an underscore),
launching a specified action when clicked.

=head2 Examples

=over 4

See also 'actions' array example in "User-defined actions" section.

 -- automagically respond to 'ping'
 function message_cb (jid, msg) 
 	if string.find(msg, "ping") then
 		gtkabber.sendmsg(jid, "pong")
 		gtkabber.print("Automagically responded to ".. jid .."'s 'ping'\n")
 	end
 end

 -- keep an eye on your Juliet
 	function presence_cb (jid, status, status_msg)
 		if string.find(jid, "juliet@example.com") then
 		os.execute("xcowsay 'Juliet is coming!' &")
 	end
 end

 -- keep naggers away
 function post_connect (jid, msg)
 	gtkabber.sendstatus("foobar@example.com", "dnd")
 end

=back
