=head1 Gtkabber - usage

=head2 Interface

Gtkabber's interface aims to be clean and simple, without much fuss. So we have a roster view on the left,
status tab (and probably some chat tabs) on the right, the status-switching combobox under the roster view
and a status message entry even lower.

=head3 Setting your status

Activate your combobox (click on it, or press C-s on your keyboard [see Keybindings for more details]),
and just choose the one you want they are in such order, that the more chatty you are, the higher you should go.

=head4 Settings a status message

Activate the status entry (below status combobox), type your desired status and press enter. Done.

=head4 Sending specific status to a buddy

Right click on a buddy in a roster, and select a status you wish to send.

=head3 Start chatting

That's what you came here for, huh? Just select a buddy in the roster, a new tab will appear,
in which you can type what you wish to say.

=head4 Closing tabs

No 'x' button, huh? Right click on a tab you want to close, or press C-q (control + q) to close the active tab.

=head3 Sending subsription request

Press C-o to open the options bar, then click the "Subscribe" button to open another bar with some self-explanatory entries.
C-o again if you wish not to see options again.

=head2 Keybindings

This is where we shine :) Here's the list:

=over 4

=item B<M-[num]> - (Alt + num) change the current tab

=item B<C-r> - (Control + r) focus the roster view. You can now select the buddy you want to chat with and press enter to begin

=item B<C-M-r> - (Control + Alt + r) reload the config file

=item B<C-t> - focus the tabs. Then just C-PgUp/PgDown to switch them

=item B<C-q> - close the active tab

=item B<C-s> - focus the status box to set your status

=item B<C-M-s> - select the status message entry

=item B<C-o> - open the options bar at the bottom of the screen

=item B<C-h> - hide/show unavailable buddies in your roster

=back
